# 180Protocol

### Introduction
180Protocol is an open-source software toolkit for data sharing. 180Protocol represents the next evolution of data
sharing infrastructure, an infrastructure that ensures a secure, rewarding, and efficient data sharing experience.

180Protocol targets enterprise use cases and is uniquely positioned to improve the value and mobility of sensitive and
confidential business data. The software introduces distributed network design to the problem of enterprise data sharing,
solving for the legacy barriers that have limited data mobility and value. We make data available where it needs to be,
without moving it and transforming it along they way.

Enterprises/Developers can utilize 180Protocol to create coalitions - private networks on R3 Corda - to share their
private structured data assets. Coalitions are composed of corda nodes that can act as Data Providers and Data Consumers,
and a coalition host.

* Data Providers - nodes that have pre-approved structured private data assets that they want to share and be rewarded for
* Data Consumer - nodes that have a need to consume unique and commercially valuable data outputs
* Coalition Host - node that runs the trusted enclave and arbitrates communication between providers and consumers

180Protocol comprises the following components:

1. **Aggregator SDK** - an enclave based data transformation interface that can take flexible data input, data output, 
and provenance definitions. Furthermore, a data transformation algorithm can be configured to map inputs to an output. 
In future releases, the Aggregator will include a proprietary rewards engine that can be configured to reward data providers 
in a coalition for their private data inputs. Since the aggregator runs inside a trusted enclave, with a pre verified attestation, 
providers data inputs are rewarded unbiasedly. Furthermore, consumers get data outputs based on a known transformation algorithm.  

2. **180Dashboard** - a React based front end application that allows Data Providers and Data Consumers to keep track of 
shared data, view data aggregation history and keep track of rewards for each data aggregation.

3. **Codaptor** - a middleware that connects to the Corda RPC and generates OpenAPI bindings automatically for any CordApp

The above components can be used by application developers to create decentralized applications that enable private 
structured data to be shared, transformed and rewarded for in a secure way.

This repository contains a representative application built on the 180Protocol framework and can be utilized by developers
as a blueprint to start building more complex applications. We encourage application developers and businesses to build 
on 180Protocol and provide feedback so we can introduce better features over time.

Please read more detailed design and API specifications on our [Wiki](https://180protocol.gitbook.io/product-docs/)

### Roadmap
This is the alpha release of 180Protocol and is experimental in nature. 
There are improvements we plan to release in the coming weeks including -

1. We have tested the enclave based computations in the Enclave 'Mock' mode. We are testing deployment using an [MS Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/solutions/confidential-compute/) 
cloud enclave
2. Introducing a regression based rewards engine that can be utilized within the Aggregator SDK
3. The Aggregator SDK workflows are consumer driven only. All providers in the network are required to share data when 
requested by the consumer. We intend to introduce further variations of the Aggregation Flows that account for varied 
commercial use cases
4. Supporting multiple enclave communication frameworks beyond R3 Conclave. We are currently testing compatibility with
[EGO](https://www.ego.dev/)
5. Introducing a variety of example use cases across industry verticals
6. Integrating the Aggregator SDK with a public blockchain to enable data providers to monetize their rewards using a token
economy


**Contact:** 
* Commercial queries: [management@180protocol.com](mailto:management@180protocol.com)
* Developer Discord: [180Protocol Discord](https://discord.com/invite/vvA8sRbs)
* Community channels: [www.180protocol.com](https://www.180protocol.com/)

### How to run the 180Protocol POC

The protocol poc comprises the 180Dashboard and pocCordApp modules. The 180 Dashboard is the React based front end and the
protocolAggregator is the sample backend.

To build protocolAggregator:

1. Run the `./gradlew build` command from within the protocolAggregator folder
2. Run `./gradlew deployNodes` command to generate nodes folder inside build folder.
3. Modify the `/protocolAggregator/build/nodes/runnodes` file generated by the `deployNodes` and replace the run commands 
to include the `run-migration-scripts` and `--allow-hibernate-to-manage-app-schema` flags. Please read [here](https://docs.r3.com/en/platform/corda/4.7/open-source/tutorial-cordapp.html#deploying-the-cordapp-locally) 

Read the `protocolAggregator/README.md` for details around extension.

Change    

   `if [ -z "$JAVA_HOME" ] && which osascript >/dev/null; then
     /usr/libexec/java_home --exec java -jar runnodes.jar "$@"
   else
     "${JAVA_HOME:+$JAVA_HOME/bin/}java" -jar runnodes.jar "$@"
   fi`

to   

   `if [ -z "$JAVA_HOME" ] && which osascript >/dev/null; then
     /usr/libexec/java_home --exec java -jar corda.jar run-migration-scripts --core-schemas "$@"
     /usr/libexec/java_home --exec java -jar corda.jar --allow-hibernate-to-manage-app-schema "$@"
   else
     "${JAVA_HOME:+$JAVA_HOME/bin/}java" -jar corda.jar run-migration-scripts --core-schemas "$@"
     "${JAVA_HOME:+$JAVA_HOME/bin/}java" -jar corda.jar --allow-hibernate-to-manage-app-schema "$@"
   fi`


To run the sample 180ProtocolPOC Coalition network using Docker:

1. Each data provider and consumer data can be viewed on the dashboard using their login credentials (corda node hostname as user and
      port number as the password). Modify the file `180Dashboard/src/userInfo.yml` -
      Ex, for provider A use
      `nodes:
      providerA:
      username: providerA
      password: test
      port: 9500
      role: provider
      name: O=Host,L=London,C=GB`

2. Run below command from the project root path to start 180Dashboard service & protocolAggregator
   service using docker compose

   `docker-compose -f ./compose-corda-network.yml -f ./compose-codaptor.yml up`

3. The 180Dashboard can be accessed at `http://localhost:3000` on a browser 

And there you go!

#### System requirements
The docker based network configuration is composed of several services (corda nodes, codaptor and react) and 
thus requires significant memory and processing power. Hence, we recommend at least 16 GB RAM to support smooth running
of the entire coalition network on docker for end to end testing. Alternatively, for testing the back end, the react front end
can be not utilized.

#### Configuring 180Protocol Dashboard

We provide a yaml file to configure the number of nodes in the coalition - providers or consumers - who have access to 
the 180Dashboard. Users can be configured in `userInfo.yml` provided under the `180Dashboard/src` directory. These 
users must be in accordance with the Corda network setup configured under the `protocolAggregator/build.gradle`. 
The corda network gradle config allows specifying the party name for each Corda node. This party name must also be 
specified under the userInfo.yml file. The node role (provider or consumer) can also be specified in the userInfo.yml.

Further, the port number under userInfo.yml must be the same as that specified `compose-codaptor.yml` file. This
is to ensure that the dashboard can query the correct OpenAPI endpoint for the said node. 

Finally, the rewards weights used by the Rewards Engine must be configured for the dashboard to display correctly (These
are representative for now and don't affect the back end)

#### Adding a new node to the 180Protocol network

To add a new node for the 180Protocol POC, configurations need to be added to the 180Dashboard, the Codaptor OpenAPI and
the corda network configurations -

1. Corda Network: add the new node config under the `deployNodes` task of the `protocolAggregator/build.gradle` file, e.x. -

   ```
   node {
        name "O=Host,L=London,C=GB"
        p2pAddress "host-node:10004"
        rpcSettings {
            address("0.0.0.0:10005")
            adminAddress("0.0.0.0:10045")
        }
        cordapp (project(':workflows')) {
            config '''\
                participantRole = COALITION_HOST
            '''.stripIndent()
        }
        runSchemaMigration = true
        rpcUsers = [[ user: "user1", "password": "test", "permissions": ["ALL"]]]
    }
   ```

   In the above, the name corresponds to the node name under the `180Dashboard/src/userInfo.yml`. Run the `deployNodes` 
task to generate the build for the new node. 

2. Codaptor OpenAPI: add the new node details to the `compose-corda-network.yml` and `compose-codaptor.yml`
files by following the examples given in these files. Note the Corda RPC and P2P port configurations under `compose-corda-network.yml` 
are the same as the those specified under the `build.gradle` file for the new node. Additionally, the `compose-codaptor.yml`
exposes the Codaptor OpenAPI for the new node. The `CORDAPTOR_API_EXTERNAL_ADDRESS` specified here should match with the 
port number specified under the `180Dashboard/src/userInfo.yml`. 
For further details around Codaptor configurations see: [Codaptor](https://github.com/180Protocol/codaptor)

3. 180Dashboard: add details of the new node under the `nodes` section of `180Dashboard/src/userInfo.yml` file. It includes
   `username`, `password` and `role` fields of the node user to enable login into the dashboard. You can also
   specify `port` number and party `name` of new node. 
   
   ```
   providerA:
     username: providerA
     password: test
     port: 9500
     role: provider
     name: O=PartyA,L=London,C=GB
   ```
   Here the `username`, `password` are arbitrary but `port` and `role` need to follow the dependencies described in the steps above

### Licenses

Please take note of the license obligations you are bound under by downloading the source code. The repository contains
two folders, under different licenses -

1. 180Dashboard - released under the Apache2.0 License 
2. protocolAggregator - released under the GNU AGPL3.0 license 

Additionally, protocolAggregator has a dependency on R3 Conclave, which requires developers to download the Conclave API.
Please take a look at the R3 Conclave license considerations for further information.

We have tried to emulate MongoDB's philosophy in this regard. Please [read further](https://www.mongodb.com/blog/post/the-agpl) 